# Lone Survivor and Beta Release

Right, it's time to do a quick beta release. The game for this is _Lone Survivor_ which is a non-Mysterious Adventures Brian Howarth game, only released on the Commodore 16/Plus 4. Most of the time spent on this was in extracting the data file from the C16/+4 executable!

I did fix some bugs at this point. The most annoying one was fixing my logic with the flags; I'd initially tried to be memory efficient and use only 1 bit/flag for all 32 flags. After messing around with some minor annoying bugs, I decided to copy the original Brian Howarth BBC driver and just use a byte as they're stored in reserved memory where I have plenty of space. This reduced the size of the code for flags massively as I now only have to do:

    lda flags,x

    rts

To read from them (and an sta for a set). So code size is down to &c53 bytes.

I fixed some more bugs, including the load/save bug, which required me to recreated the osfile block each time. I've probably not done this in the most efficient way, but it works for now!

I also found a problem in my compression routine: for counters, the argument of the condition can go over 255, _Lone Survivor_ uses several counters that are set to 300. For now I'm just hacking this by setting them to 255, if this is going to be a problem I've got a work around, where I can set up a 16-bit argument if necessary, but I'm not going to change anything unless this is found to be a problem.

Current to do/bugs list is as follows:

- flag 16 should be light out of fuel

- 16 rooms flags?

- time machine - dig doesn't quit after success!

- time machine - break generator finishes game!

- Golden Baton - No message if SALT is got when inventory is full

- Unimplemented:

  - SCORE

- Unused system messages

  - 13

  - 21

  - 24

## Release

Beta release, including the .ssd file and the raw .dat file (for use in ScottFree or other interpreter):

## Comments
