# 17/12/2010: More additions and code reduction

This covers the past few days where I've being doing dribs and drabs when I have had time. First off, some new stuff. I added a pseudo-random number generator as just grabbing a value from &FE44 didn't turn out to be random (interestingly enough Brian Howarth's code just gets the low byte of the system clock for this). I also added the print counter routine, one vital step on getting SCORE working properly.

The other area of work was code reduction, which I saved some notes on byte reductions. The first step was turning JSR xyz:RTS into JMP xyz; this saved about 5 bytes. Next I added a couple of functions to perform 16-bit addition to the most commonly used pointers. Some moving pointers around so I could could use common code also saved some bytes. Finally I found a whole chunk of code that I had duplicated, so this went.

The final savings were around 56 bytes, with details shown below:

| Code Size | Method |

|-----------|------------------------------------------------|

| C7F | Start |

| C6C | Adding addtobufptr |

| C63 | Moving some foundptr references to bufptr |

| C5F | Remove copying of noun to roomptr |

| C5a | Adding addtofoundptr |

| C51 | Adding copybptofp (copying bufptr to foundptr) |

| C44 | Removing duplicate code |

Because I'm using two pointers (bufptr and foundptr) I have a duplication of code which I should probably try and remove:

    .skipstringbp

    {

                   ldy #0

                   lda (bufptr),y

                   jmp addtobufptr

    }



    ; simple routine to add A to bufptr and save a few bytes

    .addtobufptr

    {

                   clc

                   adc bufptr

                   sta bufptr

                   bcc nooverflow

                   inc bufptr+1

    .nooverflow    rts

    }

This could save another 17 bytes; I need to think it out better though...

Edit: As I posted this, I realised that I can remove the jmp statement as the code will fall through anyway. So another 6 bytes down - size at the moment is &C3E; with about &200 of this being the system engine messages.

## Comments
